The Zheng is a new frame in [[ISP-NORTHSTAR|IPS-N]]’s line and is unusual in that its development can be attributed almost completely to a single mech pilot – Xiong Xiaoli, a Mirrorsmoke mercenary operating in the Long Rim, protecting heavy freight/low crew shipments to the early Dawnline Shore colonies. A relative unknown before the incident, [[MIRRORSMOKE MERCENARY COMPANY|MSMC]] documentation from the time indicates that her convoy was attacked by the White Tiger pirate conglomerate, and her entire company killed in action. Xiong’s personal logbook, recovered posthumously, expounds on [[MIRRORSMOKE MERCENARY COMPANY|MSMC]]’s report.

In her logbook, Xiong noted that her chassis, a factory-standard [[ISP-NORTHSTAR|IPS-N]] Raleigh, was almost totally ripped apart in the chaos of the White Tiger’s attack. Thrown free of her billeted freighter after it collided with a White Tiger crashboat, Xiong managed to survive the next 45 days by scavenging across the drifting, derelict wreck of the [[MIRRORSMOKE MERCENARY COMPANY|MSMC]]-S Say No More, the escort cruiser attached to the supply colony. Outnumbered and hunted by the White Tiger pirates prowling the ruined convoy, Xiong took dramatic steps to modify her Raleigh for close-quarters combat. In the dark, claustrophobic environments of the Say No More and ruined freighters leashed to it by the White Tigers, Xiong turned her chassis into a machine of tumbling death.

Xiong likely did not survive the long engagement. She is presumed to have perished mere days before an [[ISP-NORTHSTAR|IPS-N]] Trunk Security patrol arrived, responding to the convoy's initial distress signal. Trunk Security found that Xiong had eliminated every White Tiger pirate assigned to the convoy; her chassis, logbook, and trace elements of her body were discovered in the White Tiger’s cored-out gunboat and recovered by [[ISP-NORTHSTAR|IPS-N]]. Thanks to her efforts, Trunk Security and [[MIRRORSMOKE MERCENARY COMPANY|MSMC]] were able to hunt down the remaining White Tiger gang and eliminate them. [[ISP-NORTHSTAR|IPS-N]] and [[MIRRORSMOKE MERCENARY COMPANY|MSMC]] then engaged in a lengthy negotiation over the modified Raleigh’s plans, eventually settling on a mixed licensing fee that benefits both [[ISP-NORTHSTAR|IPS-N]] and [[MIRRORSMOKE MERCENARY COMPANY|MSMC]]. The resulting pattern, the Zheng, is now a popular choice among [[MIRRORSMOKE MERCENARY COMPANY|MSMC]] and Trunk Security pilots operating across the Rim.

Xiong Xiaoli is widely regarded as a bodhisattva across the Long Rim; [[MIRRORSMOKE MERCENARY COMPANY|MSMC]] mercenaries have created several drinking games named after her, and [[MIRRORSMOKE MERCENARY COMPANY|MSMC]] pilots on combat contracts often compete to hit the “Xiong Limit” of 45+ confirmed kills.