---
aliases [ThirdComm]
---

# Major Coalitions of the Third Committee
Broadly speaking, the Third Committee’s deliberative body, the Central Committee ([[UNION CENTRAL COMMITTEEUNION CENTRAL COMMITTEE|CentComm]]), is composed of five major coalitions – groups of political parties and representatives organized into voting blocks. While working groups, break-outs, and caucuses exist within each group, the coalitions listed here provide a basis for what to expect when surveying [[UNION CENTRAL COMMITTEEUNION CENTRAL COMMITTEE|CentComm]]’s political landscape.

## The Interstellar
ThirdComm’s founding coalition, the Interstellar is both the largest coalition in [[UNION CENTRAL COMMITTEEUNION CENTRAL COMMITTEE|CentComm]] and representative of the political ideology of most Metropolitans. In the nearly five centuries since the Third Committee’s foundation, the Interstellar has remained largely consistent in its adherence to the spirit of the Utopian Pillars – if not always their word. Under the Interstellar’s majority leadership, [[``Union|Union]] has course-corrected away from SecComm’s imperial practices and toward a more hands-off approach to galactic affairs. The galaxy has once again become a polyglot, cosmopolitan network of thousands of worlds under [[``Union|Union]]’s hegemony – though some would call it empire with kid gloves, instead of jackboots. While peace (mostly) reigns as a result of the Interstellar’s stewardship, complaints assail the moderate–left party from both flanks: to the radicals of the New Solidarity Coalition, the Interstellar has made too many concessions to the right wing; to the Fourth Column and New Humanity Front factions, the Interstellar’s grip on galactic affairs is at once totalitarian, at once feeble. Regardless, membership in the Interstellar remains steady, and it comfortably commands 35 percent of [[UNION CENTRAL COMMITTEEUNION CENTRAL COMMITTEE|CentComm]] representatives, with a vast and diverse constituency.

## The Fourth Column
Another old faction, the Fourth Column is a conservative– right coalition led by the Prime Baron of Karrakis, Karra-Bem, who holds such sway over the bulk of its members that members of the NSC and the Verdant Social Arc disparagingly refer to it as the “Karrakin Column”. The Fourth Column is a non-interventionist coalition that advocates for economic expansion across [[Galactic Core|Core]] and [[Diasporans|Diasporan]] space. In practice, this motivating ideology translates into liberal economic policy, curtailment of some bureaus’ enforcement abilities, and privatization of services, departments, bureaus, and purviews within [[``Union|Union]]’s hegemonic portfolio. Before the schism that birthed the New Humanity Front, the Fourth Column enjoyed a steady 20 percent representation on the Central Committee, though recent elections have shown a worrying decline in membership that tracks with New Humanity’s growth

The membership of the Fourth Column is mostly Baronic, with a large contingent of worlds represented by a joint [[SMITH-SHIMANO CORPRO|SSC]]–[[ISP-NORTHSTAR|IPS-N]] Metropolitan delegation. Many [[[[Diasporans]]|[[Diaspor]]ans|[[Diasporans|Diasporan]]]] delegations leery of [[``Union|Union]]’s influence and command also find themselves in the Fourth Column; while they’re less inclined to caucus with the New Humanity Front than Metropolitan representatives, they will acquiesce to that coalition’s demands if it means winning a majority.

## The New Humanity Front
The New Humanity Front was once a minor group of far-right parties loosely aligned around [[Harrison Armory]]’s representatives in the Fourth Column. Its founding members split from the Fourth Column recently, following the uptick in proxy conflicts and trade wars in the Dawnline Shore. The New Humanity Front advocates for rapid colonial expansion, an end to certain transhuman and posthuman prohibitions (in defiance of the First Contact Accords), and an overall restructuring of [[``Union|Union]]’s government away from the representative committee system toward a federal system of direct representative government. This coalition seeks to reduce [[``Union|Union]]’s central power, a move that many in the [[Diasporans|Diaspora]] find compelling. Critics of the New Humanity Front argue that its motivating ideology is simply [[Anthrochauvinism]] by way of [[Harrison Armory]]. New Humanity most often finds itself in conflict with the NSC – sometimes spilling out of [[UNION CENTRAL COMMITTEEUNION CENTRAL COMMITTEE|CentComm]]’s legislative chambers into open street violence between member parties on constituent worlds.

Eagerly arranged behind the charismatic young radicals of the Armory’s representative party, the Forward Progress, New Humanity’s member parties enjoy a steady climb in membership with each election; at present, they control 10 percent of [[UNION CENTRAL COMMITTEEUNION CENTRAL COMMITTEE|CentComm]] representatives, up from the 7 percent they claimed prior to the most recent elections, Most of their new members are pulled from discontented Fourth Column parties and – surprisingly – some moderate members of the Interstellar.

## The New Solidarity Coalition
The New Solidarity Coalition (NSC) is a young, growing coalition composed of new, radical representatives from [[Galactic Core|Core]] and [[Diasporans|Diasporan]] worlds. Broadly speaking, these members advocate for a more direct, aggressive [[``Union|Union]] that “fights for humanity” to ensure galaxy-wide adoption and ratification of the Utopian Pillars. Far-left and anarchist in ideology, the NSC often finds itself opposing New Humanity and the Fourth Column in uneasy alliance with the Verdant Social Arc and the Interstellar; however, it is not uncommon for the NSC to break with these erstwhile allies on questions of colonization, regulation, and diplomacy with various corpro-states, the Aunic problem, and matters concerning the Baronies, the Armory, and the Economic Bureau. The NSC claims 15 percent of the Central Committee’s representatives.

In the NSC, one might expect to find representatives sympathetic to the [[Albatross]], [[DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND HUMAN RIGHTS|DoJ/HR]] liberator teams, Horizon, and the Ungratefuls. Its power base is a coalition of young Metropolitans dissatisfied with the slow progress and contradictory policies of the Interstellar, old radical Metropolitans who have always espoused permanent revolution, [[Diasporans]] opposed to corpro-states, and [[Diasporans]] who have adopted the early radical policies of the revolutionary Third‐ Comm. The NSC also commands a great deal of influence among [[DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND HUMAN RIGHTS|DoJ/HR]] personnel and some of the more radical administrators.

## The Verdant Social Arc
In the NSC, one might expect to find representatives sympathetic to the [[Albatross]], [[DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND HUMAN RIGHTS|DoJ/HR]] liberator teams, Horizon, and the Ungratefuls. Its power base is a coalition of young Metropolitans dissatisfied with the slow progress and contradictory policies of the Interstellar, old radical Metropolitans who have always espoused permanent revolution, [[Diasporans]] opposed to corpro-states, and [[Diasporans]] who have adopted the early radical policies of the revolutionary Third‐ Comm. The NSC also commands a great deal of influence among [[DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND HUMAN RIGHTS|DoJ/HR]] personnel and some of the more radical administrators.

The VSA’s membership has declined steadily with each election since the founding of the NSC, as its member parties drift toward the center or further left. Currently, the VSA claims 15 percent of the representatives in the Central Committee.

The members of the VSA are a dwindling group of more-than-moderate, not-quite-radical Metropolitans, isolationist [[Diasporans]], and old [[BUREAU OF COLONIAL ADMINISTRATION|BCA]] personnel who have remained in public service.

## Independent Parties
The remainder of [[UNION CENTRAL COMMITTEEUNION CENTRAL COMMITTEE|CentComm]]’s members, roughly 5 percent, is composed of independent parties. Representation in this non-category category fluctuates with each election but has yet to exceed seven percent.

